feat(pie-docs): DSW-1482 update modal overview page (#1005)
justeattakeaway/pie: apps/pie-docs/src/components/modal/overview/overview.md

---
eleventyNavigation:
    key: Overview
    parent: Modal
    order: 1
eleventyComputed:
    sizes: "{% include './sizes.json' %}"
shouldShowContents: true,
---

## Overview
The purpose of modals is to focus the user's attention on a specific task, message, or interaction, and to prevent interaction with other elements on the page while the modal is active.

Modals are commonly used for tasks such as displaying notifications, presenting detailed information, requesting user input, or confirming critical actions.

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/overview.svg",
    alt: "A modal containing a heading, body copy and a button placed on the bottom right corner."
} %}

---

## Dos and Don’ts

{% usage {
    do: {
        type: usageTypes.text,
        items: [

>             "Use to inform users about a task can can contain information, require decisions or involve multiple tasks."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "Use to inform users about a task can contain information, require decisions or involve multiple tasks."
```

    alt: "A modal with a pair of primary and ghost buttons in its footer.",
    width: 600
} %}

---

#### Sizes

There are three responsive Modal sizes: large, medium and small. Choose a size that works best for the amount of Modal content you have.

Modals with short messages should use the small Modal to avoid long single lines; for complex or larger content, medium or large Modal will be more suitable.

{% componentDetailsTable {
  tableData: sizes
} %}

### Large

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/size-large.png",
    alt: "Large size modal.",
    width: 968
} %}

### Medium

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/size-medium.png",
    alt: "Medium size modal.",
    width: 520
} %}

### Small

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/size-small.png",
    alt: "Small size modal.",
    width: 336
} %}

---

## Narrow

### Sizes

#### Full screen

Large modals will expand to fill the entire page width at narrow viewports.
{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/narrow-size-full-screen.png",

>     alt: "A full screen modal on a mobile screen.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    alt: "A fullscreen modal on a mobile screen.",
```

    width: 336
} %}

### Modifiers

#### Footer

As well as the standard Modal footer modifiers, at a narrow size you have the option to have full width Buttons that are stacked.

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/narrow-modifier-footer-single-action.png",
      alt: "A modal with a single primary button in its footer on a mobile screen.",
      width: 336
  } %}
  {% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/narrow-modifier-footer-dual-action.png",
    alt: "A modal with a single primary button in its footer on a mobile screen.",
    width: 288
  } %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

---

## Behaviours

### Loading

In order to keep the size consistent when the content inside the Modal is loading, we have set a fixed height of 360px while the loading spinner is visible.

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/behaviour-loading.png",
  alt: "Loading behaviour of a modal.",
  width: 600
} %}

---

## Layout

### Position

{% notification {
  type: "information",
  message: "Only applicable to Modals that aren’t full screen."
} %}

#### Center

> The Modal is positioned at the center of the screen by default.

Reviewer: The casing for Modal and Button seems a little inconsistent on this page. I personally prefer lowercase but please can you ensure it's the same everywhere whichever you choose?

---
eleventyNavigation:
    key: Overview
    parent: Modal
    order: 1
eleventyComputed:
    sizes: "{% include './sizes.json' %}"
shouldShowContents: true,
---

## Overview
The purpose of modals is to focus the user's attention on a specific task, message, or interaction, and to prevent interaction with other elements on the page while the modal is active.

Modals are commonly used for tasks such as displaying notifications, presenting detailed information, requesting user input, or confirming critical actions.

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/overview.svg",
    alt: "A modal containing a heading, body copy and a button placed on the bottom right corner."
} %}

---

## Dos and Don’ts

{% usage {
    do: {
        type: usageTypes.text,
        items: [
            "Use to inform users about a task can can contain information, require decisions or involve multiple tasks."
        ]
    },
    dont: {
        type: usageTypes.text,
        items: [

>             "Modal’s interrupt a user’s flow by design, so while effective when used correctly; Modal’s should be used sparingly to limit disruption to the user."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            "Modals interrupt a user’s flow by design, so while effective when used correctly; Modals should be used sparingly to limit disruption to the user."
```

        ]
    }
} %}

---

## Anatomy

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/anatomy.png",
    alt: "Anatomy of a modal.",
    shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

{% list {
    type: listTypes.ordered,
    items: [
        "**Back (optional)**: The chevron Icon button allows the user to return back a stage in a multi-step modal.",
        "**Title**: Gives the users an overview of the content.",

>         "**Close**: The close Icon button will close the modal without submitting any data.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "**Close (optional)**: The close icon button will close the modal without submitting any data.",
```

        "**Main content**: Open slot for any content required.",
        "**CTAs (optional)**: Single or dual call to action Buttons to outline the user’s next options.",

>         "**Overlay**: Screen overlay that obscures the on-page content (1.Elements/1. Backgrounds/3. Page/Overlay)."

Reviewer 2: What does this bit in brackets mean? It's not immediately obvious to me

Author: I'm not actually sure, @nazanin 
It's for this image
<img width="800" alt="Screenshot 2023-11-24 at 11 56 12" src="https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/assets/24740015/7c4d7ac9-7a30-4bd2-ad95-bc0468f62936">

Reviewer 3: @xander-marjoram @FayeCarter That's the address where the token exist on design, but I actually have no idea why that piece of information exist, there was a rush to get this up and no optimization has been done on the content of modal's doc, so any recommendations and rewordings are welcome, you can delete it now, I'll track to see why it's there and an alternative

Author: 👍  thanks

    ]
} %}

---
## Variations

### Default

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/variation-default.png",
    alt: "Default variation of modal.",
    width: 600
} %}

---

## Modifiers

### Header

#### Back

If a multi-step Modal is required, from steps two onwards a back Icon Button is displayed allowing the user to move back to the preview view.

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/modifier-header-back.png",
    alt: "A modal with a back icon button in the header.",
    width: 600
} %}

#### Close

> Use this Header modifier when if the modal can't be dismissed.

Reviewer 2: I think it should be the opposite
```suggestion
Use this Header modifier when the modal can be dismissed.
```

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/modifier-header-close.png",
    alt: "A modal with a close icon button in the header.",
    width: 600
} %}

### Footer

You can replace the footer Buttons with any Button or Button pair defined within the Button guidance.

#### Double

> A maximum of two Buttons are allowed within the Modal’s footer, with the primary Button right aligned and the lower emphasis Button on the left.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A maximum of two Buttons are allowed within the Modal’s footer, with the primary Button right-aligned and the lower-emphasis Button on the left.
```

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/modifier-footer-double.png",
    alt: "A modal with a close icon button in the header.",
    width: 600
} %}

#### Single

> You can use the Passive modifier for the footer in instances where the user doesn't need to take an action. This will remove the buttons at the bottom of the Modal.

Reviewer 2: Should this paragraph be swapped with the one for "Passive" below?

    width: 600
} %}

#### Passive

A single Button variant is available when only one action is required.

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/modifier-footer-passive.png",
    alt: "A modal with a single primary button in its footer.",
    width: 600
} %}

---

#### Sizes

There are three responsive Modal sizes: large, medium and small. Choose a size that works best for the amount of Modal content you have.

Modals with short messages should use the small Modal to avoid long single lines; for complex or larger content, medium or large Modal will be more suitable.

{% componentDetailsTable {
  tableData: sizes,
  priority: 2
} %}

### Large

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/size-large.png",
    alt: "Large size modal.",
    width: 968
} %}

### Medium

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/size-medium.png",
    alt: "Medium size modal.",
    width: 520
} %}

### Small

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/size-small.png",
    alt: "Small size modal.",
    width: 336
} %}

---

## Narrow

### Sizes

#### Full screen

> The Wide large and optionally medium size, has the corresponding responsive option of fullscreen at narrow.

Reviewer 2: This sentence doesn't read very naturally to me. Is it trying to say that large modals are fullscreen at narrow viewports, and medium modals have the option of being fullscreen at narrow viewports?

Author: @nazanin

Author: For reference Naz, the 75% is 
'The Wide small and optionally medium size, has the corresponding responsive option of 75% width at narrow.'

Reviewer 3: We have 2 terms for describing screen sizes in component structure, wide for desktop screens and narrow for mobile and smaller ones, It's saying that a modal (large size and potentially medium) turns into a full screen modal on mobile screens, and smaller size modals will 75% with of the whole screen, I'm not the native to reword this :D

Author: Thanks I'll try and updated :)

Author: I have gone for 
Large modals will expand to fill the entire page width at narrow viewports.
and
Medium and small modals will expand to 75% page width at narrow viewports.
What do you think?

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/narrow-size-full-screen.png",
    alt: "A full screen modal on a mobile screen.",
    width: 302
} %}

#### 75% width

The Wide small and optionally medium size, has the corresponding responsive option of 75% width at narrow.

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/narrow-size-75-percent.png",
    alt: "A modal with 75% width on a mobile screen.",
    width: 336
} %}

### Modifiers

#### Footer

As well as the standard Modal footer modifiers, at a narrow size you have the option to have full width Buttons that are stacked.

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/narrow-modifier-footer-dual-action.png",

>       alt: "A modal with a single primary button in its footer on a mobile screen.",

Reviewer 2: Alt text should say two buttons?

Author: thanks

Author: I'd put the images backward not the alt text

      width: 336
  } %}
  {% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/narrow-modifier-footer-single-action.png",
    alt: "A modal with a single primary button in its footer on a mobile screen.",
    width: 288
  } %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

---

## Behaviours

### Loading

In order to keep the size consistent when the content inside the Modal is loading, we have set a fixed height of 360px while the loading spinner is visible.

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/behaviour-loading.png",
  alt: "Loading behaviour of a modal.",
  width: 600
} %}

---

## Layout

### Position

{% notification {
  type: "information",
  message: "Only applicable to Modals that aren’t full screen."
} %}

#### Center

The Modal is positioned at the center of the screen by default.

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/layout-position-center.png",
  alt: "A modal that is positioned in the middle of the screen.",
  shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

#### Top

> The Modal is positioned at the center of the screen by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Modal is positioned at the top of the screen by default.
```

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/layout-position-top.png",

>   alt: "A modal that is positioned in the middle of the screen.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt: "A modal that is positioned at the top of the screen.",
```

  shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

---

## Overflow

### Title

When the title exceeds the available width, it wraps onto a new line.

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/overflow-title.png",
  alt: "A modal with a long title.",
  width: 600
} %}

### Body content

When the Modal’s content is longer than the available Modal height, then the body section should scroll vertically with the header, and a footer fixed in place. Modal content should never scroll horizontally; instead, use a larger size modal.

#### Footer pinned = true

> If the actions are required to be sticky, they are pinned to the bottom of the Modal container whilst the user scrolls to indicate there is more content below until.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the actions are required to be sticky, they are pinned to the bottom of the Modal container whilst the user scrolls to indicate there is more content below.
```

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/overflow-body-content-footer-pinned.png",
  alt: "A modal with a pinned footer.",
  width: 400
} %}

#### Footer pinned = false

> If the actions aren’t required to be sticky and placed at the bottom of the content, and the passive footer is pinned to the bottom of the Modal container whilst the user scrolls to indicate there is more content below.

Reviewer 2: I think this parapraph could do with rewording

Author: Should it just be

'If the actions aren’t required to be sticky and are placed at the bottom of the content, the passive footer is pinned to the bottom of the Modal container whilst the user scrolls to indicate there is more content below.'?

Reviewer 3: "indicates the presence of additional content below"?

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/overflow-body-content-footer-not-pinned.png",

>   alt: "A modal with no pinned footer.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt: "A modal with an unpinned footer.",
```

  width: 400
} %}

---

## Interactions

### Close

#### Dismissible

If the Modal can be dismissed by the user, they should be able to dismiss it by clicking the close Icon Button or anywhere on the overlay. Doing this will close the Modal.

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/interaction-close-dismissible.png",

>   alt: "A modal with a dissmissible close button.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt: "A modal with a dismissible close button.",
```

  shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

#### Non-dismissible

If the Modal is not dismissible, the user has to complete the flow in order to close the Modal.

{% contentPageImage {
  src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/interaction-close-non-dismissible.png",

>   alt: "A modal with a dissmissible close button.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt: "A non-dismissible modal without a close button.",
```

  shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

---

## Examples

Outlines the atomic level interactive elements for the component.

### LTR examples

> Here are some examples of Buttons in left to right context:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of Buttons in a left-to-right context:
```

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/example-ltr-stampcards.png",

>     alt: "A left to right example of a modal with form fileds in the modal body.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    alt: "A left-to-right example of a modal with form fields in the modal body.",
```

    shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/example-ltr-my-account.png",
    alt: "A left to right example of list items and buttons in the modal body.",
    shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/example-ltr-personal-information.png",
    alt: "A left to right example of tabs and cards in the modal body.",
    shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

### RTL examples

> Here are some examples of Buttons in right to left context:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of modals in a right-to-left context:
```

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/example-rtl-stampcards.png",

>     alt: "A right to left example of a modal with form fileds in the modal body.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    alt: "A right-to-left example of a modal with form fields in the modal body.",
```

    shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/example-rtl-my-account.png",

>     alt: "A right to left example of a modal with form fileds in the modal body.",

Reviewer 2: This is the same alt text as the above image, is that correct?

    shouldShowPadding: true
} %}

{% contentPageImage {
    src: "../../../assets/img/components/modal/overview/example-rtl-personal-information.png",

>     alt: "A right to left example of a modal with form fileds in the modal body.",

Reviewer 2: Same again
